翻译光照贴图 (#1679)
cocos-creator/creator-docs: en/concepts/scene/light/lightmap.md

# Lightmapping

> > **Note**: the Lightmapping feature is not currently supported on Apple M1 (Silicon) architecture devices and is expected to be supported in v3.1.

Reviewer: v3.1.2

> > **Note**: the Lightmapping feature is not currently supported on Apple M1 (Silicon) architecture devices and is expected to be supported in v3.1.

Author: ```suggestion
> **Note**: the Lightmapping feature is not currently supported on Apple M1 (Silicon) architecture devices and is expected to be supported in v3.1.2.
```

> Light maps are generated by the **Baking System** by calculating the effect of all light sources in the scene on the model. In scenes with fixed light sources, using lightmapping instead of real-time lighting calculations can reduce resource consumption and thus improve the efficiency of scene operation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Lightmaps are generated by the **Baking System** by calculating the effect of all light sources in the scene on the model. In scenes with fixed light sources, using lightmapping instead of real-time lighting calculations can reduce resource consumption and thus improve the efficiency of scene operation.
```

## Lightmapping Panel

Click **Projects -> Lightmapping** in the editor menu bar to open the Lightmapping panel. The panel consists of two pages, **Scene** and **Baked**.

![bake result](./lightmap/lightmap-panel.png)

- **Scene**: mainly used to configure the parameters related to generating the lightmap.
- **Baked**: mainly used to display the generated lightmap and its related information.

For details, please see the **Generating Lightmaps** section below.

> ### Property Description

Reviewer: Properties？

Author: 要用单数

The description of each parameter on the **Scene** page is as follows:

> | Parameter | Description |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Property | Description |
```

| :--- | :--- |
| MSAA | Multiple Sampling, optional values include: 1, 2, 4, 8 |
| Resolution | The resolution of the generated lightmap, optional values are 128, 256, 512, 1024, 2048 |
| Gamma | Gamma correction value |
| GIScale | Global lighting scaling factor |
| GISamples | Global illumination sampling factor |
| AOLevel | AO (Ambient Occlusion) level |
| AOStrength | AO intensity |
| AORadius | AO radius |
| AOColor | AO color |

## Generating lightmaps

1. Select the light node (with light component) in the **Hierarchy** panel, then set the **StaticSettings** of the light component in the **Inspector** panel, and check the `Bakeable` property (currently multiple [main directional lights](./dir-light.md) are not supported).

    ![enable lightbake](./lightmap/light-bakeable.png)

    - **EditorOnly**: if or not it takes effect only in the editor

    - **Bakeable**: if or not to bake static lighting

    - **CastShadow**: if or not to cast static shadows

> 2. Select the model node (with [MeshRenderer component](./../../../engine/renderable/model-component.md) in the **Hierarchy** panel to generate the lightmap), then set **LightmapSettings** in the **Inspector** panel and check the `Bakeable` property.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Select the model node (with [MeshRenderer component](./../../../engine/renderable/model-component.md)) in the **Hierarchy** panel to generate the lightmap, then set **LightmapSettings** in the **Inspector** panel and check the `Bakeable` property.
```

> 2. Select the model node (with [MeshRenderer component](./../../../engine/renderable/model-component.md) in the **Hierarchy** panel to generate the lightmap), then set **LightmapSettings** in the **Properties Inspector** and check the `Bakeable` property.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Select the model node (with [MeshRenderer component](./../../../engine/renderable/model-component.md) in the **Hierarchy** panel to generate the lightmap), then set **LightmapSettings** in the **Inspector** and check the `Bakeable` property.
```

    ![model lightmap settings](./lightmap/meshrenderer-bakeable.png)

    - **Bakeable**: if or not to bake static lighting

    - **CastShadow**: if or not to cast static shadows

    - **ReceiveShadow**: if or not to receive static shadows

    - **LightmapSize**: the size of the model lightmap

    > **Note**: to generate lightmaps for a model, there are two requirements:
    >

>     > 1. When the artist creates the model resource, he/she needs to include another set of UVs for lightmapping in addition to the UVs of the model itself.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    > 1. When the artist creates the model resource, in addition to the UVs of the model itself, another set of UVs for lightmapping needs to be included.
```

    > 
    > 2. The model's Materials need to have the **USE LIGHTMAP** rendering option turned on, for example:
    >
    > ![materials use lightmap](./lightmap/materials.png)

> 3. Open the **Lightmap** panel and set the corresponding parameters. Then click the **Lightmap Generate** button, a file storage dialog will pop up, you need to specify a folder (must be in `assets` directory) to store the generated lightmap data information. You can see the baking progress log at the bottom of the **Lightmap** panel.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
3. Open the **Lightmap** panel and set the corresponding parameters. Then click the **Lightmap Generate** button, a file storage dialog will pop up, you need to specify a folder (must be in the `assets` directory) to store the generated lightmap data information. Notice the baking progress log at the bottom of the **Lightmap** panel.
```
